---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
title: Research
description: Research profile & main publications
nav: true
---

I am passionate about research and have maintained an active academic
portfolio even while working in industry.

My research interests lie in the foundations and mechanisms of
political representation: how [individual
attitudes](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/709672)
translate into [political
behavior](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/political-science-research-and-methods/article/rooting-out-corruption-or-rooting-for-corruption-the-heterogeneous-electoral-consequences-of-scandals/902FCB9C6DF2CCB1DB73E57AC07AD5D4)
and how institutional constraints shape decision-making. At the
beginnning of my career, I investigated the role of [coercive
institutions](http://ipp.csic.es/en/event/seminarios-cip-oligopoly-violence-civilian-control-heterogeneous-military)
in regime instability. Over time, I have grown interested in the
impact of [digital
tools](https://www.amazon.com/Retooling-Politics-Digital-Shaping-Democracy/dp/1108419402)
on political participation and in the measurement of [political
inequality](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0894439314558836?journalCode=ssce)
in [online
contexts.](https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2022/06/16/politics-on-twitter-one-third-of-tweets-from-u-s-adults-are-political/)
My current projects explore the relation between geographic
representation and networked participation.

On the methodological side, I have worked on the [application of
machine learning
methods](https://www.westat.com/capability/statistical-sciences/artificial-intelligence-ai-data-analytics)
(including natural language processing and computer vision) for the
collection of high-quality social data. I have also built systems to
improve [hybrid
QA/QC](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1525822X221107053)
systems of research data. As a consequence of my more substantive
interests, I have worked on [statistical
methods](http://libreria.cis.es/libros/analisis-de-datos-incompletos-en-ciencias-sociales/9788474765632/)
for the measurement of political attitudes and behaviors
[online](https://rsa.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/21582041.2017.1325924)
and
[offline.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0261379415001092)
A theorist at heart, I maintain an active interest in [formal
theory](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0176268015000592).

I have advised statistical institutes, academic organizations, and
agencies on survey data collection, on statistical methodology, and on
open science.

A full list of publications and research activities is available on my
[CV.]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdf/resume-grivero.pdf)
